Hi ...

This directory contains source and test files for program RAY3D, which traces rays 
for receiver function generation in themedium consisting of homogeneous flat or dipping layers.

The code itself has existed since 1982 in various forms.  No version numbers were ever assigned
until version 2004.171!  It now prints out the version when the code is started.  

The current version is 2007.154

Because some very old versions of the code seem to exist out there in user directories around the world and because
some of them clearly have bugs, it is strongly recommended that old versions of the code are discarded and replaced with this one.  

Specifically, there was a buggy version on Chuck Ammon's web page until about 2002.  If got ray3d from there, your results may be 
wrong for some dipping layer models.  

This distribution is the first known to work with FORTRAN-95 compilers.  In fact, a FORTRAN-95 is required.  g95 from www.g95.org is what I use.  gfortran from GNU (gcc version 4.2.0 or higher) should work.  

I have tested at this point only under Mac OSX on a PowerPC and Intel processors as well under an AMD Opteron processor under Linux.  It works and generates identical results as I use to get under Solaris with f77 on an early version, with the exception of the bug noted below.

There is a Makefile.  Plus, you need the TJO Fortran Library in the appropriate place.  If you got the file you are reading from me,
you should have everything you need.

Copy test_input/test.mod and Run_Test_Case.sh into a Local_Tests directory and then run the script and see what happens.  Directory Test_Output has older results to confirm things seem OK.

Your only other task is to read and understand the file RAY3D_Session file in this directory.  It has some
helpful hints on how you should properly use RAY3D, including how you should do things when phases shifts
are generated.  Failure to follow this guidelines will lead to erroneous seismograms.

Known Bugs:

The current version has some problem convolving with a source function.  This is a "biggie", but I'm
releasing this anyway.  For the test case, your test_sy.[rt] files will not match the ones in test_output.  
The relative amplitudes are OK, but the absolute amplitudes are off by a factor of 10**-19 or so.
Sorry about that.  The test_sy.z is correct though!

There is some wrap around problem with some seismogram links when generating synthetics (as opposed to 
spike files).  I'm tracking that down soon.

Have fun!

bye, tjo
owens@seis.sc.edu
